http://www.gotw.ca/gotw/009.htm

Following are the differences between malloc() and operator new.: 

1. Calling Constructors: new calls constructors, while malloc() does not. In fact primitive data types (char, int, float.. etc) 
can also be initialized with new. For example, below program prints 10.

2. operator vs function: new is an operator, while malloc() is a function.

3. return type: new returns exact data type, while malloc() returns void *.

4. Failure Condition: On failure, malloc() returns NULL where as new throws bad_alloc exception.

5. Memory: In case of new, memory is allocated from free store where as in malloc() memory allocation is done from heap.

6. Size: Required size of memory is calculated by compiler for new, where as we have to manually calculate size for malloc().

7. Buffer Size: malloc() allows to change the size of buffer using realloc() while new doesn’t


Free-store:

The free store is one of the two dynamic memory areas, allocated/freed by new/delete. Object lifetime can be less 
than the time the storage is allocated; that is, free store objects can have memory allocated without being 
immediately initialized, and can be destroyed without the memory being immediately deallocated. During the 
period when the storage is allocated but outside the object's lifetime, the storage may be accessed and manipulated 
through a void* but none of the proto-object's nonstatic members or member functions may be accessed, have their 
addresses taken, or be otherwise manipulated.

Heap:

The heap is the other dynamic memory area, allocated/freed by malloc/free and their variants. Note that while the 
default global new and delete might be implemented in terms of malloc and free by a particular compiler, the heap 
is not the same as free store and memory allocated in one area cannot be safely deallocated in the other. Memory 
allocated from the heap can be used for objects of class type by placement-new construction and explicit destruction. 
If so used, the notes about free store object lifetime apply similarly here.

